The good news that we preach has many facets, many aspects,
like a gorgeous, multifaceted diamond.
But now, what is one facet that we especially enjoy teaching people about?
The fact that fateful humans under Kingdom rule will never grow old and die.
Unlike Adam and Eve who threw away the privilege to eat of the tree of life
and live forever, faithful humans will be granted life without end.
But now, sometimes when we discuss this aspect of the good news,
people bring up a couple of questions.
One, they may say, is everlasting life really possible?
It just seems like it's too good to be true.
And two, if I actually do live forever, will life not eventually become boring?
Well, let's discuss those two questions during our talk.
Now, first, how can we be sure that everlasting life will become a reality?
The first and foremost reason, because the God who cannot lie has promised it.
Revelation 21, 4 Jehovah says that he will wipe out every tear and death will be no more.
And then, in effect, he publicly signs that promise.
Next verse, verse 5, he says, right for these words are fateful and true.
In other words, write it down where everyone can see what I promised and I certify it will happen.
I guarantee it will.
But now, here's a question.
What evidence do we have that humans originally were designed to live forever?
Well, think about the first book of the Bible, the introductory book.
The first two humans were told if they ate from the tree of the knowledge of good and bad, they would certainly die.
Now, what is implied?
If they didn't eat, they were fateful, obedient, they would still be alive, they would never die.
How old would Adam be now?
Little over 6,000 years old.
Eve a little bit younger.
How would they look?
Just as beautiful handsome, perfect as the day they were created.
What would be their health condition?
They would feel just as healthy and vibrant as the day they were created.
Now, we know they did sin and they died as Jehovah said.
But his original purpose he was for them to live.
And that purpose will be fulfilled as scriptures in the Bible certainly verify.
What's another line of reasoning that we were originally designed to live forever?
Well, think about the astounding capacity of the human brain.
Now, scientists in recent years are finding out more and more that the brain has much more capacity
than they previously thought, even just a couple of years ago.
Here's what a recent study had to say about this.
It said the average adult human brain's memory capacity is estimated to be two and a half million gigabytes.
Now, if you want to compare that with a smartphone, the average smartphone 150 gigabytes.
Two and a half million gigabytes, the brain?
150, a smartphone.
No comparison.
In fact, that study went on to say that the brain would never run out of storage capacity
because new memories keep replacing old wines.
That happens because new neural connections are formed.
So the brain was obviously designed to last forever.
Never fill up.
Don't give me your name.
Don't give me any more information.
My brain is full. I can't take it.
No.
Never reach that point.
The brain could always take more Jehovah made it that way.
You want to get a little maybe idea about the capacity of the human brain.
Think about the tremendous download that Jesus received at His baptism.
Eons of time, the memory of that all downloaded the human brain that Jesus had was able to hold.
That's it.
It was a human brain.
It's perfect, but a human brain.
The brain obviously is a very, very big place in a very, very small space, isn't it?
That certainly is the case.
Now, here's our intriguing question.
Why would Jehovah create us with a super brain super capacity if we're only designed to live 70 or 80 years?
Would even make sense, would it?
That would be like making a smartphone with two and a half million gigabyte capacity,
knowing that the user would only use a few hundred gigabytes in his whole lifetime.
Or like building an automobile with a million horsepower engine,
knowing the owner would only use a few hundred horsepower during his life.
It wouldn't make sense, would it?
The brain obviously, loudly proclaims that humans were designed to live forever.
Now, let's get one more line of reasoning that we're designed to live forever.
Go to Ecclesiastes, please.
Ecclesiastes chapter 3.
In verse number 11, we'll read the A part, says,
He, Jehovah, has made everything beautiful in its time.
He has even put eternity in their heart.
Now, what does that mean?
Well, Jehovah has implanted in the hearts of humans the desire, the strong craving to live eternally.
To live forever.
Now, think about it.
Isn't it true?
When death lurks at a person's door, we see they keep trying to live, don't they?
They will pursue doctors, medicine.
They will endure all kinds of difficult treatments.
They want to live.
If a person was asked to pick the day on which he wished to die,
most would keep pushing that day further, farther, and farther into the future with me.
See, they want to keep living.
See, throughout history, humans have looked for the fountain of youth,
the medicine, the elixir, a potion to keep them living,
and the search certainly continues today.
But now, here's our intriguing question.
Why would Jehovah create humans with that strong desire
if they're only meant to live 70 or 80 years?
It'd actually be cruel, wouldn't it?
Be kind of like you think of this illustration, tying a dog on a 20-foot chain
and putting a juicy steak, 21 feet from the post where that chain was secured.
The dog could see that steak, he could smell that steak,
but he couldn't get a bite of it, could he?
That would be cruel.
And we know Jehovah is definitely not a cruel God.
He's a very loving Heavenly Father.
Well, the foregoing is just a few reasoning points
that humans were designed and will live forever.
But now, let's get that second question.
Why do some people reason that living forever would be boring?
Well, some reason that if everyone lives forever, they're all perfect.
Will they not all eventually become carbon copies of each other?
With variety being lost?
Well, that reasoning is not sound.
Our publication is this life all there is,
addressed that shallow reasoning.
Here's what it said.
It said, life in human perfection,
does not mean that everyone will be doing all things equally well
and with the same intense interest.
What the Bible holds forth is the promise of life
without sickness and death.
Healthy people today are not all alike.
So why should anyone conclude that bodily and mental perfection
would make people virtual copies of one another?
People will still vary as to personality.
They will have varying preferences as to work, building,
home decoration, landscaping, food and drink,
entertainment, the fine arts, and so forth.
Additionally, think about this.
There is nothing, absolutely nothing boring, about Jehovah,
or any of his creation.
I personally can't think of any two things that are exactly identical,
even so-called identical twins you're looking at here.
Notice their teeth are different.
Their freckle pattern is different.
Their fingerprints are different.
Their personalities are different.
They are certainly not identical.
In fact, there are no two dogs, no two trees, no two tigers,
no two things I can think of that are exactly alike.
Think about zebras for a moment.
Now you look at this herd of zebras,
looks like they're basically all striped the same.
No two zebras on the planet striped exactly the same.
And scientists even think that this is how a baby zebra
recognizes and finds his mother in a big herd,
he memorizes her unique striping pattern.
Isn't it amazing what evolution can do?
If you believe that, I've got a bridge to sell you.
It's amazing what Jehovah has done.
Or think about snowflakes for a moment.
Out of the trillions of snowflakes that fall
in one large snowstorm, no two alike.
Amazing, even though all of them are succeeded.
As you can see here, they're hexagonal,
but no two alike.
Nothing boring about Jehovah.
And you can be sure that humans who are the work of the hands of a God
of that kind of infinite variety will never become carbon copies
of one another.
Now another reason though, that people think some of them
that living forever would be boring,
they think that finally you would learn everything
to learn, you'd do everything to do,
and life would cease to be stimulating.
It would become drab and uninteresting.
Well again, such reasoning is not sound.
First of all, to repeat something that is pleasurable
is not boring, is it?
I mean, think about eating.
Most people eat over a thousand meals in a year.
Does a man who is 40 years old eaten over 40,000 meals
is he more bored than the 20-year-old
who's eaten 20,000 meals?
No, that certainly is not the case.
Think about apples.
How many varieties of apples have you personally tasted?
Maybe a couple of dozen.
Fiji Gala, Rome, Macintosh, red and golden delicious,
Granny Smith, Jonathan Winsap,
maybe you've tried a couple dozen.
Studies show there are more than 7,500 varieties
of apples grown in the earth.
If you sample one apple every day,
it would take you over 20 years.
Just to sample the varieties that are grown in the earth today,
not speaking of one's new ones that may be developed
in the New World, but it would take you over 20 years.
And you could go 20 years later,
back and eat that first one, you sample.
It'd be like a brand-new variety, wouldn't it?
Nothing boring about Jehovah's creation.
Think about this, too.
Another example.
If you take a wonderful vacation
and a beautiful part of the earth,
you go back into the same area,
you take another vacation as similar.
Are you bored?
No.
Repeating pleasurable things are not boring.
And also, to remember,
is that you will never learn it all.
We will never do it all.
Learn it or do it all.
Let's go back to Ecclesiastes, chapter 3.
And this time, let's read the entire verse, verse number 11.
He, Jehovah, has made everything beautiful in its time.
He has even put eternity in their heart.
Yet mankind, now look at that word,
will never, never find out the work that the true God has made
from start to finish.
So, Jehovah says, you'll never learn it all, you'll never do it all.
How long would it take you to learn to play all the musical instruments that exist today
to learn to play them well?
People spend their whole life learning to play one instrument, don't they?
When they die, they wish they had more time to develop that skill.
What about new instruments even invented in the New World?
You, brothers, imagine living a hundred years with a beard.
Hundred years with just a mustache.
Hundred years with a go-t.
Hundred years clean shaven.
Then go back and repeat that process with different variations.
Imagine living a hundred years in a beautiful house that you built in the mountains,
you and your family, and then trading that house with a house that a family built on the seashore.
And you live in that house for a hundred years.
Continue the trading process all around the planet Earth.
So, finally, you get back to that original house that you built in the mountains,
but now it's greatly improved.
Remodel and beautiful, you live there another hundred years, you start that process.
Again, I mean, just think about some of these things.
Imagine learning about all the millions of varieties of fish, amphibians, mammals, birds, insects.
I read about one man who studied fleas.
Twenty-two years he spent studying fleas.
He is a flea expert.
Probably doesn't know much about anything else, but he knows about fleas.
Twenty-two years.
Imagine getting to know and appreciate every human among the billions
who will be living on the earth, getting to know and appreciate every one of them.
Learning from their talents, their experiences coming to regard them as a dear friend.
Just one example.
When you like to spend some time with Noah's wife, I know I'd like to know,
what is your name?
Right now, we know Sister Noah, right?
And how were you and your husband able to protect your son from the evil influence that was around you?
What was it like in those years before the flood?
What was it like to come out of the earth?
You could spend a lot of time with Noah's wife, couldn't you?
Imagine learning about all each one of the more than 200 billion stars in the Milky Way galaxy.
And then, after you do that, you can go to the next galaxy.
And they estimate there are more galaxies than there are individual stars in the Milky Way galaxy.
Now, you think of that and it gives you a headache, doesn't it?
A lot of time could be used there, even more impossible.
Imagine learning about Jehovah throughout all eternity.
We will learn more and more fascinating things about our God and never begin to learn it all.
Well, we could go on and on, but hopefully we could use some of these points if we ever encounter someone
who brings up that reasoning, is it really possible to live forever?
It's not only possible.
It's guaranteed, isn't it?
And it definitely will not be boring.
And hopefully all of us appreciate even more.
This marvelous prize that Jehovah has invited humans to reach out and take hold of,
don't miss it, don't miss it, reach out and take hold of the real life.